1. Tell me about yourself
-> Hello, my name is Kalpesh Harishchandra Shinde. I have 4 years of experience, with 3.5 years in Python development. I started as a PHP developer and then worked as a Python and Django trainer.

I worked as a software developer at Software Plus Electronics for 2 years and 7 months. My responsibilities included database management, dynamic website development, backend integration, MQTT communication, and using Flask for web development. I used Cron jobs for task automation, managed CRUD operations, and worked with MySQL. I also handled debugging, generating logs, and managed project repositories on GitHub.

I worked at PlayerzPot Media Pvt Ltd, a fantasy gaming company. My role involved testing and debugging code, ensuring matches ran correctly, managing refunds, monitoring storage memory, and handling contest cancellations using the PySpark engine.

2.how can we secure our apis?
-> We secure APIs by using authentication, authorization, and token validation. When a request comes, we check if it's authorized to execute the associated function by validating a token with a secret key. Input validation ensures data integrity. CORS prevents unauthorized external requests, keeping our API safe.

3.indexing in sql
-> Indexing in SQL is like a book's index page, making data retrieval faster. Instead of scanning all pages, it jumps directly to the desired information, optimizing database performance

4.what is inheritance in python?
-> In Python, inheritance lets a class to inherit properties and methods from another class. There are five types: single level, multi-level, multiple, hybrid, and hierarchical. It helps reuse and extend code by utilizing properties and methods from other classes.

5.join
-> Select * from table1 join table2 on table1.column = table2.column where table1.column = 'something'

6.how can or in how many tpe we defin e a url in  flask python?
-> In Flask, you define URLs using route decorators. There are two types: static (with fixed paths) and dynamic (with variable parts). Syntax-wise, you can use @app.route for decorators or app.add_url_rule method to create URLs. Both ways help  map URLs to functions in your Flask application.

7.which  libraries are you using in python?
->
NumPy:
Example: Used for array operations, mathematical functions.

Pandas:
Example: Used for working with structured data (DataFrames).

Matplotlib:
Example: Used for creating plots and charts.

Requests:
Example: Used for making API calls.

Flask:
Example: Used for creating web servers.

Django:
Example: Used for creating full-stack web applications.

SQLite3:
Example: Used for interacting with SQLite databases.

Random:
Example: Used for simulating random events in programs.

Time:
Example: Used for measuring execution time or introducing delays.

OS:
Example: Used for file operations, directory manipulation, etc.

8.What is the difference between a class method and an instance method in Python?
->
Instance Method:
Operates on an instance of the class.
Can access and modify the instance's attributes.
Defined using the def keyword inside the class, with self as the first parameter.
Called on an instance of the class: instance.method().

Class Method:
Operates on the class itself, rather than an instance.
Cannot access or modify instance-specific attributes.
Defined using the @classmethod decorator, with cls as the first parameter.
Called on the class: Class.method().

9.What is the difference between a module and a package in Python?
->
Module:
A single file containing Python code.
Can define variables, functions, and classes.
Used for organizing code within a single file.

Package:
A collection of modules organized in directories.
Contains a special file called __init__.py to indicate it's a package.
Used for organizing code across multiple files and subdirectories.

10.What is the purpose of using lambda functions in Python?
->
Lambda functions in Python are used for concise and anonymous function definitions, often in situations where a full function is unnecessary They are especially useful for short-lived operations.

11.Explain how request is processed in django?
-
URL Routing: Django uses URL patterns defined in urls.py to match the incoming request URL to a specific view function.

View Function: The matched view function is called, which processes the request and generates a response. This may involve querying the database, processing forms, etc.

Middleware: Middleware components can modify the request and response objects at various stages of processing. They execute before and after the view function.

Response: The view function returns an HTTP response object. This can be a rendered HTML page, JSON data, or any other HTTP response type.

Template Rendering: If the view function returns a template response, Django renders the template with context data and sends the resulting HTML back as part of the HTTP response.

Response Sent: The final response is sent back to the client.

12.what is the use of py manage.py makemigrations?
-The command python manage.py makemigrations in Django is used to create new migration files based on changes you’ve made to your models.
-It detects changes in your Django models
- It creates migration files in the migrations directory of each app. These files contain the instructions to apply the changes to your database schema.

13.what is context in django?
-In Django, context refers to the data passed from a view to a template. This data is used to dynamically generate the HTML content that the template will render.

14.q object in orm django?
In Django's ORM (Object-Relational Mapping), the Q object is used to construct complex queries involving AND, OR, and NOT operations. It allows you to build more sophisticated queries than what you can achieve with simple filter conditions.

15.get and filter in django
-get() Method
Retrieves a single object that matches the given query parameters.
Returns a single instance of the model.
Raises DoesNotExist if no objects match the query.
Raises MultipleObjectsReturned if more than one object matches the query.
-filter() Method
Retrieves a queryset of objects that match the given query parameters.
Returns a queryset containing all matching objects.
If no objects match, it returns an empty queryset.

16.python manage.py migrate
- python manage.py migrate applies database changes based on your Django models, ensuring the database schema is up to date.

17.Django ORM 
->  Django ORM reduces the chance of mistakes compared to writing raw SQL queries by allowing you to interact with the database using Python code. It maps database tables to Python classes and handles SQL queries automatically.




